Let's say that executive leadership has allocated
eight full-time professional roles for a new data science organization.
How might I organize these roles into teams within the organization?
If I had eight positions from my data science team,
I would organize my professionals into three groups to start.
First, I would fill two project specific teams.
As their name suggests,
they would be deployed on individual projects from the roadmap.
I would also keep a third group of specialists,
who at this stage,
would float between the two project teams.
My first team would be heavy on data scientists
as the skill set associated with that role tends to be
able to complete many of the tasks critical on
the road to developing prototypes and proofs of concept.
I would not hire only generalists; however,
a machine learning engineer would be a valuable specialist for
teams developing data science projects for which machine learning is key.
I would probably keep the same structure for my second team as well.
I would fill my last two positions with
a data engineer and a data visualization engineer.
At this point, the goal is to develop working prototypes.
I believe that data engineering and data visualization skills would not yet be in demand
enough to allocate full-time specialists in those areas to individual teams.
Once our prototypes prove the concept and value of a data science solution,
they will be built into production quality products and applications,
at which point my specialist talent base will need to become much more deep.